Draft - Rh blockchain basics (#991)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: academy/0.0-B9lab-Blockchains/3_managed.md

A well-understood challenge related to reduced block time stems from network latency. Since nodes do not learn about newly discovered blocks simultaneously, at any given time a portion of the miners will be working on already solved (i.e. old) blocks. If these miners find a solution, they might not be rewarded and a "fork" of the chain results, in which rival chains with a common true history spread through the network. The rate at which such transient forks occur increases predictably with shorter block times. While Bitcoin addresses this efficiency issue with a relatively long block time of 10 minutes, Ethereum addresses this concern with a partial reward strategy: valid blocks that aren't ultimately included in the canonical chain (because another chain becomes longer) are still included on the side and known as **uncles**. Miners of uncles receive a smaller reward than regular block miners. 

> ![Uncles in Ethereum](images/00_18_block_uncles-01.png)

Reviewer: Not directly a "language" review factor, but: as a layperson, I find the depiction of the blockchain/uncles dynamic in the graphic _00_18_block_uncles-01.png_ a bit counter-intuitive. It seems to me that the direction of the arrows AND the atypical right-to-left orientation to represent old-to-new could provoke confusion.

I would clarify by expanding the labels "Block" and "Uncle" to indicate newness, and orient the "aging" of the system to show older at the left and newer at the right (see attached image).

![Blocks-and-uncles](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104000630/165515303-f1ac5725-4d8b-4c7e-b0ee-326ccdf13f5c.png)

I have maintained the use of arrows which point towards the source of a block's history. However, I would observe that this also seems counter-intuitive, with diagrams typically pointing _from_ one state _toward_ a subsequent state. Perhaps the usage here is a convention in blockchain specifically, but if not I would be inclined to reverse the arrow directions in all instances here.

Reviewer 2: It is an issue with which we often grapple. Personally, I would add a _passage of time_ arrow below all going from left to right, the `x` axis. Perhaps with the legend of "time of appearance on network" or suchlike.
Then have each block put alongside the `x` axis as is visible in the 2 versions of the diagram.
The arrows would point leftward, but I would make them tenuous, or dotted, with a legend of: A <- B: A is parent block of B.
And name _Uncle B_ a block that appears later than _Block B_ but is then included in _Block C_, not _Block A_. The arrow would point from _Block C_ to _Uncle B_ with another tenuous arrow type and the legend A <- B: A is an uncle of B.
Keep in mind that this uncle concept is non-existent in PoS blockchains. So we could just mention it in passing with a link.
@rob-Hitchens

Author: I think the passage of time arrow is a good idea to possibly add in the future but not crucial for this stage. We've used this image before and it's just in passing mention, in this case, to help position Cosmos against the competition. The complexity of this process is one of the elements Tendermint (arguably) does better with validator sets and true transaction finality.

The precise mechanism employed by Ethereum is called GHOST. GHOST includes so-called uncles that are propagated into the network too late to rise to the level of network consensus. This increases the total difficulty of the chain, makes smaller block times possible, and rewards miners of uncles for contributing to the overall strength of the network.

> Ethereum's solution to achieve faster block times draws attention to the universal challenge of blockchain technology, performance, and throughput. Cosmos solves for performance in two ways: with a faster consensus process, and by introducing parallelism.

Reviewer: @xavierlepretre , I query the sentence **Ethereum's solution to achieve faster block times draws attention to the universal challenge of blockchain technology, performance, and throughput.**

It is ambiguous whether there are:

1.  **three** challenges (blockchain technology, performance, and throughput); or 
2. **two** challenges _of blockchain_ (performance, and throughput).

Reviewer 2: It is 2 challenges.

    
These useful innovations are not the key innovation that allows Ethereum to operate with faster block times. 

A well-understood challenge related to reduced block time stems from network latency. Since nodes do not learn about newly discovered blocks simultaneously, at any given time a portion of the miners will be working on already solved (i.e. old) blocks. If these miners find a solution, they might not be rewarded and a "fork" of the chain results, in which rival chains with a common true history spread through the network. The rate at which such transient forks occur increases predictably with shorter block times. 

Another way of understanding this is to consider that at any point in time, a predictable percentage of the total mining hardware in the network will be working on the wrong chain, because of latency, and this percentage increases with shorter block times. It is not beneficial to the network or the miners to waste hardware resources that are intended to secure the network. 

> While Bitcoin addresses this efficiency issue with a relatively long block time of 10 minutes, Ethereum addresses this concern with a partial reward strategy: valid blocks that aren't ultimately included in the canonical chain (because another chain becomes longer) are still included on the side and known as **uncles**. Miners of uncles receive a smaller reward than regular block miners. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While Bitcoin addresses this efficiency issue with a relatively long block time of 10 minutes, Ethereum addresses this concern with a partial reward strategy: valid blocks that aren't ultimately included in the canonical chain (because another chain becomes longer) can still be included on the side and known as **uncles**. Miners of uncles receive a smaller reward than regular block miners. 
```

---
title: "Managed Blockchains"
order: 3
description: Introduction to Managed Networks
tag: fast-track
---

# Introduction to Managed Networks

Managed networks, just like public networks, rely on blockchain data structures. But unlike public blockchain networks they do not *necessarily* need to mitigate the Byzantine General's Problem because they operate in a predictable environment with elements of authority, hierarchy and accountability.

> 

Reviewer 3: Completely missing here in my opinion is an introduction of what managed networks are, as you dive right into the comparison. What do we mean by private/managed?

Author: ## Managed Blockchain Networks

Managed networks, just like public networks, rely on blockchain data structures. Unlike public blockchain networks, they do not necessarily need to mitigate the Byzantine Generals' Problem because they operate in a predictable environment with elements of authority, hierarchy, and accountability.

Managed networks can be used in cases where elements of trust already exist between the participants. For example, consider a network of financial institutions. They could use blockchain technology to settle inter-bank transactions. In that case, there would be no need for public access and, indeed, public access would be undesirable. Instead, they might consider a private network with each institution operating exactly one validator. All participants would understand that no operator in a single institution would be able to corrupt the network. In fact, it would be much easier for them, as a group, to alter a history if they found it detrimental since it would only require the coordinated action of a small number of known validators. 

Managed networks are typically governed through traditional governance processes that are appropriate for the shared goals of the participants.

# Managed Blockchain Networks

Public networks are based on game theory and economic incentives, which means that every action is probabilistic. We have no guarantee that our transactions will be picked up and even the integrity of the network is merely very likely, not 100% guaranteed.

This is often unacceptable, for example, for traditional financial institutions. Still, one of the biggest expenses financial and other institutions face is the operation and maintenance of infrastructure as well as the cost resulting from leaks, hacks, reconciliation with trading partners, errors and data incompatibility. Blockchain seems like a promising solution. 

Unlike public networks where the interaction between participants is governed by the protocol and crypto-economic incentives, in managed networks the blockchain protocol is a technical enforcement of pre-existing relationships and legally enforceable agreements.

![Public vs Private](images/00_10_public_vs_private_comparison_table.png)

**Private blockchains**:

- **can be designed for a limited number of vetted and approved participants.** Accommodation of performance-challenged and poorly connected nodes is of lesser importance. 

> - **can be designed for optimised performance.** Most participants in an Enterprise network will be well-capable of standing up well-connected high-performance and high-availability nodes. A group of participants can agree to raise the bar defining minimum system requirements significantly. For example, participation might be limited to sizable Enterprise-class servers with redundant low-latency, high-bandwidth network connections.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we need to include a rather long elaboration -starting with "For example, participation...". This makes the bullet point rather long. Maybe you could dive into it in a paragraph following the bullet points.
